sed

streamline editor to edit files with just commands without opening it in text editors
quick example
replacing a word in a file

-- all occurence, 
sed 's/old_word/new_word/' test.txt 

-- nth occurence
sed 's/old_word/new_word/n' test.txt 

add /g for global


awk
to process and analyze text files, specifically the ones organised by lnes i.e. rows and columns

qwick example:
For a table with 2 columns

// print only nth column
cat test.txt | awk '{print $n}'






Say goodbye to manual data cleaning and hello to efficient data manipulation with powerful command line tools like sed and awk. Learn how to easily clean and transform large datasets in this comprehensive guide."

Are you tired of spending hours manually cleaning and manipulating your data? Say goodbye to tedious spreadsheet work and hello to efficient data management with sed and awk, two powerful command line tools. In this blog, we'll explore how you can streamline your data processing and make the most of your time. So, if you're ready to level up your data management game, keep reading!

Are you tired of spending hours manually cleaning and manipulating large datasets? Discover the magic of Sed and Awk, two powerful command line tools that can simplify and speed up your data cleaning process. From removing unwanted characters to transforming complex data structures, learn how to harness the power of these versatile tools for efficient and effective data cleaning.





In today's world, data is a crucial asset for many organizations, as it holds valuable insights that can help companies make better decisions and stay ahead of the competition. However, before this data can be analyzed, it must first be cleaned, transformed, and processed into a usable format. This process can be time-consuming and requires specialized skills, particularly when working with large datasets. But with the right tools, it can be streamlined and made much more efficient.

In this tutorial, we'll look at how to use command line tools, such as sed and awk, to automate data processing and manipulation tasks. These tools are fast, flexible, and allow you to perform complex operations in just a few lines of code. They are especially useful for data engineers and data analysts who need to clean and prepare data for analysis quickly and efficiently.

    Introduction to sed

sed (Stream EDitor) is a versatile command line tool that can be used for text processing and manipulation. It is commonly used to perform operations such as searching and replacing text, formatting, and transforming data. With sed, you can quickly perform batch operations on large datasets, making it an indispensable tool for data manipulation.

    Introduction to awk

awk is a data-driven programming language designed for text processing. It's often used in combination with other tools, such as sed, to perform complex operations on data. awk is especially powerful when it comes to selecting and processing data based on specific conditions.

    Combining sed and awk

One of the benefits of using these tools is that they can be combined to perform complex operations on data. For example, you can use sed to search and replace specific text, then use awk to extract relevant data and perform calculations. This can be especially useful when working with large datasets, as it allows you to automate time-consuming tasks and work more efficiently.

    Common use cases

Some common use cases for sed and awk include:

    Data cleaning: Removing unwanted characters, formatting data, and fixing errors.
    Data extraction: Selecting specific data based on certain conditions.
    Data transformation: Converting data from one format to another.
    Data aggregation: Calculating statistics and aggregating data.

    Conclusion

sed and awk are incredibly powerful tools for data manipulation and processing. They are fast, flexible, and allow you to automate complex tasks, making them indispensable for data engineers and data analysts. With these tools, you can quickly and efficiently clean and prepare data for analysis, saving you time and reducing the risk of errors. So, whether you're working with large datasets or just need to clean up a small file, these tools are worth learning and incorporating into your data processing workflow.













    sed (Stream Editor) - A non-interactive text editor that performs basic transformations on an input stream of text.

    awk - A pattern-directed scanning and processing language. It's often used for data extraction, reporting, and data manipulation.

    grep - A tool that searches for patterns in text.

    cut - A tool that selects specific fields or columns from a file.

    sort - A tool that sorts the contents of a file.

    uniq - A tool that removes duplicate lines from a file.

    wc (Word Count) - A tool that counts the number of lines, words, and characters in a file.

    tr (Translate) - A tool that translates or deletes characters from a file.

    join - A tool that joins two files based on a common field.

    paste - A tool that combines the contents of two or more files into one.
